V2/README.md, before:

# PharmaControl V2: Industrial-Grade Control System

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--SA%204.0-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Version: 2.0.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](robust_mpc/__init__.py)
[![V2: Industrial](https://img.shields.io/badge/V2-Production%20Ready-green.svg)](../README.md)

**Production-Ready Model Predictive Control with Uncertainty Quantification and Genetic Optimization**

## 🚀 Industrial Evolution

V2 represents a complete architectural transformation from research prototype to production-ready industrial control system. This is where theory meets industrial reality.

### **🔄 Evolution from V1**
- **V1 Foundation** → **V2 Industrial Excellence**
- **Monolithic Design** → **Modular Library Architecture**
- **Point Predictions** → **Uncertainty Quantification**
- **Grid Search** → **Genetic Optimization**
- **Raw Measurements** → **Kalman State Estimation**
- **Educational Demo** → **Production Deployment**

### **🏭 Production-Ready Features**
- **📚 Modular Library**: `robust_mpc` package with clean APIs
- **📊 Uncertainty Awareness**: Probabilistic models with confidence bounds
- **🔍 Noise Filtering**: Kalman filtering for sensor noise rejection
- **🧬 Intelligent Search**: Genetic algorithms for complex optimization
- **⚖️ Offset-Free Control**: Integral action eliminates steady-state errors
- **📈 Real Trajectory Tracking**: Accurate history replaces mock data generation
- **🛡️ Industrial Safety**: Formal constraints and safety guarantees
- **🧪 Comprehensive Testing**: Full test suite with production validation

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

### **Modular Design Philosophy**
```python
from V2.robust_mpc import (
    KalmanStateEstimator,      # Sensor noise filtering
    ProbabilisticTransformer,  # Uncertainty-aware prediction
    GeneticOptimizer,          # Intelligent optimization
    RobustMPCController,       # Integrated control system
    DataBuffer                 # Real trajectory tracking
)

# Composable, production-ready components
controller = RobustMPCController(
    estimator=KalmanStateEstimator(),
    model=ProbabilisticTransformer(),
    optimizer=GeneticOptimizer()
)
```

### **📁 Project Structure**

```
V2/
├── 📋 README.md                        # This documentation
├── 📖 DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md               # Technical architecture specification
├── ⚙️ pyproject.toml                   # V2-specific configuration
├── 📦 requirements.txt                 # Dependency specifications
├── 🔒 uv.lock                          # Dependency lock file
├── 🏭 robust_mpc/                      # Core production library
│   ├── __init__.py                     # Library interface & metadata
│   ├── estimators.py                   # KalmanStateEstimator
│   ├── models.py                       # ProbabilisticTransformer
│   ├── optimizers.py                   # GeneticOptimizer
│   ├── data_buffer.py                  # Real trajectory tracking
│   └── core.py                         # RobustMPCController
├── 📓 notebooks/                       # Progressive learning series
│   ├── V2-1_State_Estimation_for_Stable_Control.ipynb
│   ├── V2-2_Probabilistic_Modeling_for_Uncertainty_Awareness.ipynb
│   ├── V2-3_Advanced_Optimization_with_Genetic_Algorithms.ipynb
│   ├── V2-4_The_Robust_MPC_Core_Integrating_Intelligence.ipynb
│   └── V2-5_V2_vs_V1_Showdown_Stress_Test_Comparison.ipynb
├── 🚀 run_controller.py                # Production deployment script
├── ⚙️ config.yaml                      # Production configuration
├── 💾 data/                            # Generated datasets & artifacts
├── 🎯 models/                          # Trained model checkpoints
├── 🧪 tests/                           # Comprehensive test suite
│   └── test_library_structure.py      # Component validation
├── 🐳 Dockerfile                       # Container deployment
└── 📊 test_v2_*_completion.py          # Integration tests
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.12+ installed
- Access to central PharmaControl environment (recommended)

### **Option 1: Central Environment (Recommended)**
```bash
# From PharmaControl root directory
cd /path/to/PharmaControl
source .venv/bin/activate

# V2 is already accessible
python -c "from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController; print('✅ V2 ready!')"

# Run production controller
python V2/run_controller.py --config V2/config.yaml
```

### **Option 2: Standalone V2 Installation**
```bash
cd V2
source .venv/bin/activate  # V2 has its own environment

# Install V2 with production dependencies
uv pip install -e ".[dev,notebooks]"

# Verify installation
python -c "
from robust_mpc import (
    RobustMPCController,
    KalmanStateEstimator,
    ProbabilisticTransformer,
    GeneticOptimizer
)
print('✅ All V2 components ready!')
"

# Run production controller
python run_controller.py --config config.yaml
```

### **Quick Verification**
```bash
# Test library structure
python tests/test_library_structure.py

# Run comprehensive tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Execute all notebooks
jupyter nbconvert --execute notebooks/*.ipynb
```

## 🎯 Core Components

### **🔍 1. KalmanStateEstimator**
Production-grade state estimation with sensor noise filtering:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.estimators import KalmanStateEstimator

estimator = KalmanStateEstimator(
    state_dim=5,           # Process state dimension
    measurement_dim=8,     # Sensor measurement dimension
    process_noise=0.01,    # Process uncertainty
    measurement_noise=0.05 # Sensor noise level
)

# Noise-free state estimates
filtered_state = estimator.update(noisy_measurements)
```

**Key Features:**
- Extended Kalman filtering for nonlinear systems
- Adaptive noise covariance estimation
- Real-time computational efficiency
- Integration with control loop

### **🤖 2. ProbabilisticTransformer**
Uncertainty-aware prediction with confidence bounds:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.models import ProbabilisticTransformer

model = ProbabilisticTransformer(
    input_dim=8,
    hidden_dim=128,
    num_layers=4,
    dropout_rate=0.1,      # Monte Carlo Dropout
    pred_horizon=20
)

# Predictions with uncertainty quantification
mean_pred, uncertainty = model.predict_with_uncertainty(state_sequence)
```

**Key Features:**
- Monte Carlo Dropout for uncertainty quantification
- Transformer architecture for sequence modeling
- Confidence bounds for risk-aware control
- Scalable to different prediction horizons

### **🧬 3. GeneticOptimizer**
Intelligent optimization for complex action spaces:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.optimizers import GeneticOptimizer

optimizer = GeneticOptimizer(
    population_size=50,
    num_generations=100,
    mutation_rate=0.1,
    crossover_rate=0.8
)

# Intelligent search through action space
optimal_actions = optimizer.optimize(
    objective_function=control_cost,
    constraints=safety_constraints,
    action_bounds=control_limits
)
```

**Key Features:**
- Evolutionary algorithms for global optimization
- Constraint handling and penalty methods
- Parallel evaluation for computational efficiency
- Adaptive parameter tuning

### **🎮 4. RobustMPCController**
Integrated production control system:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController

controller = RobustMPCController(
    estimator=KalmanStateEstimator(),
    model=ProbabilisticTransformer(),
    optimizer=GeneticOptimizer(),
    horizon=20,
    control_penalty=[1.0, 1.0, 1.0],
    constraint_penalty=100.0
)

# Production-ready control loop
actions = controller.compute_control(
    measurements=sensor_data,
    setpoints=production_targets
)
```

**Key Features:**
- Integrated uncertainty-aware MPC
- Risk-adjusted optimization with confidence bounds
- Constraint satisfaction and safety guarantees
- Production-validated performance

### **📈 5. Real Trajectory Tracking**
Critical architectural improvement for production reliability:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc import DataBuffer, RobustMPCController

# Thread-safe rolling buffer for real history
buffer = DataBuffer(
    cma_features=2,        # d50, LOD
    cpp_features=3,        # spray_rate, air_flow, carousel_speed
    buffer_size=150,       # Rolling history capacity
    validate_sequence=True # Industrial safety
)

# Automatic integration in RobustMPCController
controller = RobustMPCController(
    model=probabilistic_model,
    estimator=kalman_estimator,
    optimizer_class=GeneticOptimizer,
    config=mpc_config,
    scalers=data_scalers
)

# Real trajectory tracking in every control step
action = controller.suggest_action(
    noisy_measurement=measurement,
    control_input=current_control,
    setpoint=target
)
```

**Key Benefits:**
- **Accurate model predictions** based on real process dynamics
- **Eliminates fabricated history** that misled previous implementations
- **Production reliability** for pharmaceutical manufacturing
- **Thread-safe operation** for high-frequency control

**Critical Fix:**
- **Before**: Mock history with hardcoded baselines (spray_rate=130, air_flow=550)
- **After**: Real trajectory tracking showing actual control effectiveness
- **Impact**: Proper pharmaceutical batch quality through accurate predictions

📋 **See [REAL_HISTORY_TRACKING.md](REAL_HISTORY_TRACKING.md) for detailed documentation**

## 📖 Learning Path (5 Notebooks)

### **🎓 Progressive Learning Series**

#### **Notebook V2-1: State Estimation**
- **Focus**: Kalman filtering for sensor noise rejection
- **Skills**: State-space modeling, noise characterization, filtering theory
- **Outputs**: Robust state estimator, noise analysis
- **Time**: 2-3 hours

#### **Notebook V2-2: Probabilistic Modeling**
- **Focus**: Uncertainty quantification with Monte Carlo Dropout
- **Skills**: Bayesian neural networks, uncertainty propagation, risk assessment
- **Outputs**: Probabilistic transformer, confidence bounds
- **Time**: 3-4 hours

#### **Notebook V2-3: Genetic Optimization**
- **Focus**: Evolutionary algorithms for intelligent optimization
- **Skills**: Genetic algorithms, constraint handling, parallel optimization
- **Outputs**: Advanced optimizer, performance benchmarks
- **Time**: 2-3 hours

#### **Notebook V2-4: Integrated Control**
- **Focus**: Complete robust MPC system integration
- **Skills**: System integration, production deployment, performance tuning
- **Outputs**: Production-ready controller, validation results
- **Time**: 3-4 hours

#### **Notebook V2-5: V1 vs V2 Comparison**
- **Focus**: Performance comparison and evolution demonstration
- **Skills**: Benchmarking, comparative analysis, industrial validation
- **Outputs**: Performance metrics, evolution insights
- **Time**: 1-2 hours

### **Total Learning Time**: 1-2 weeks for mastery

## 🔬 Technical Innovations

### **Uncertainty Quantification**
```python
# Risk-aware control with confidence bounds
mean_prediction, std_prediction = model.predict_with_uncertainty(state)

# Upper Confidence Bound approach
risk_adjusted_cost = mean_cost + beta * std_cost

# Conservative control under uncertainty
safe_actions = optimizer.optimize(risk_adjusted_cost, constraints)
```

### **Adaptive State Estimation**
```python
# Self-tuning Kalman filter
estimator = KalmanStateEstimator(adaptive=True)
estimator.update_noise_covariance(innovation_sequence)

# Robust state estimation
filtered_state = estimator.estimate(noisy_measurements)
```

### **Intelligent Optimization**
```python
# Multi-objective genetic optimization
optimizer = GeneticOptimizer(
    objectives=['tracking_error', 'control_effort', 'constraint_violation'],
    weights=[1.0, 0.1, 100.0]
)

# Pareto-optimal solutions
optimal_actions = optimizer.multi_objective_optimize(problem)
```

## 📊 Performance Validation

### **Industrial Benchmarks**
- **Setpoint Tracking**: 95% improvement over V1 in tracking accuracy
- **Disturbance Rejection**: 80% reduction in output variance
- **Constraint Compliance**: 100% satisfaction of safety constraints
- **Computational Efficiency**: <100ms per control cycle (production target)
- **Robustness**: Stable operation under 20% model uncertainty

### **Production Metrics**
- **Model Accuracy**: R² > 0.98 for all outputs with uncertainty bounds
- **Control Performance**: ISE improvement of 75% over baseline
- **Safety Performance**: Zero constraint violations in 10,000+ control cycles
- **Deployment Readiness**: Docker containerization and cloud deployment

## 🔄 Integration & Evolution

### **Backward Compatibility with V1**
```python
# Easy migration from V1
from V1.src.plant_simulator import AdvancedPlantSimulator
from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController

# Use V1 simulator with V2 controller
simulator = AdvancedPlantSimulator()
controller = RobustMPCController()

# Enhanced performance with same interface
actions = controller.compute_control(state, setpoints)
```

### **Forward Evolution to V3**
```python
# V2 components integrate with V3 autonomous system
from V2.robust_mpc import KalmanStateEstimator
from V3.src.autopharm_core.learning import OnlineTrainer

# V2 state estimation with V3 online learning
estimator = KalmanStateEstimator()
trainer = OnlineTrainer(base_estimator=estimator)
```

## 🏭 Production Deployment

### **Docker Deployment**
```bash
# Build production container
docker build -t pharmacontrol-v2 .

# Run production controller
docker run -v $(pwd)/config.yaml:/app/config.yaml pharmacontrol-v2
```

### **Configuration Management**
```yaml
# config.yaml - Production configuration
controller:
  horizon: 20
  control_penalty: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]
  constraint_penalty: 100.0

estimator:
  process_noise: 0.01
  measurement_noise: 0.05

model:
  dropout_rate: 0.1
  uncertainty_samples: 100

optimizer:
  population_size: 50
  num_generations: 100
```

### **Monitoring & Logging**
```python
# Production monitoring
controller.enable_logging(level='INFO', file='production.log')
controller.enable_metrics(prometheus_endpoint='/metrics')

# Real-time dashboards
controller.start_dashboard(port=8080)
```

## 🧪 Testing & Validation

### **Comprehensive Test Suite**
```bash
# Unit tests for all components
pytest tests/test_estimators.py -v
pytest tests/test_models.py -v
pytest tests/test_optimizers.py -v
pytest tests/test_core.py -v

# Integration tests
python test_v2_3_completion.py  # Genetic optimization integration
python test_v2_4_completion.py  # Full system integration

# Performance benchmarks
pytest tests/ --benchmark-only
```

### **Validation Scenarios**
- **Nominal Operation**: Standard production conditions
- **Disturbance Tests**: Robustness under process upsets
- **Sensor Failure**: Graceful degradation with sensor faults
- **Model Uncertainty**: Performance under plant-model mismatch
- **Constraint Activation**: Safety behavior at operating limits

## 🤝 Contributing to V2

### **Development Areas**
- **🔧 Algorithm Enhancement**: New optimization methods, improved uncertainty quantification
- **🧪 Test Expansion**: Additional validation scenarios, stress tests
- **📊 Monitoring**: Enhanced dashboards, metrics, and logging
- **🐳 Deployment**: Kubernetes, cloud deployment, CI/CD pipelines
- **📖 Documentation**: API documentation, tutorials, best practices

### **Development Workflow**
```bash
# Setup development environment
cd V2
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install -e ".[dev,testing]"

# Code quality checks
black robust_mpc/
ruff robust_mpc/
mypy robust_mpc/

# Run full test suite
pytest tests/ --cov=robust_mpc --cov-report=html

# Build documentation
cd docs && make html
```

## 🔗 Quick Navigation

| Resource | Link | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| **Previous Level** | [← V1 Prototype](../V1/README.md) | Educational foundation |
| **Next Level** | [V3 Autonomous →](../V3/README.md) | Autonomous intelligence |
| **Full Project** | [← Main README](../README.md) | Complete overview |
| **Architecture** | [DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md](DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md) | Technical specifications |
| **Production** | [run_controller.py](run_controller.py) | Deployment script |
| **Testing** | [tests/](tests/) | Test suite |

---

**🎯 V2 Mission**: Deliver production-ready, uncertainty-aware model predictive control for industrial pharmaceutical manufacturing.

**📈 Evolution Path**: [V1 Foundation](../V1/) → **V2 Industrial Excellence** → [V3 Autonomous Intelligence](../V3/)

**🏭 Production Ready**: Deploy V2 today for immediate industrial impact!

Commit message:

Update documentation and configuration files
- Updated README files with latest project structure
- Modified gitignore for better file exclusion
- Updated pyproject.toml configuration
- Added V2/docs and V3/docs directories
- Removed redundant V2/requirements.txt

V2/README.md, after:

# PharmaControl V2: Industrial-Grade Control System

[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--SA%204.0-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Version: 2.0.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](robust_mpc/__init__.py)
[![V2: Industrial](https://img.shields.io/badge/V2-Production%20Ready-green.svg)](../README.md)

**Production-Ready Model Predictive Control with Uncertainty Quantification and Genetic Optimization**

## 🚀 Industrial Evolution

V2 represents a complete architectural transformation from research prototype to production-ready industrial control system. This is where theory meets industrial reality.

### **🔄 Evolution from V1**
- **V1 Foundation** → **V2 Industrial Excellence**
- **Monolithic Design** → **Modular Library Architecture**
- **Point Predictions** → **Uncertainty Quantification**
- **Grid Search** → **Genetic Optimization**
- **Raw Measurements** → **Kalman State Estimation**
- **Educational Demo** → **Production Deployment**

### **🏭 Production-Ready Features**
- **📚 Modular Library**: `robust_mpc` package with clean APIs
- **📊 Uncertainty Awareness**: Probabilistic models with confidence bounds
- **🔍 Noise Filtering**: Kalman filtering for sensor noise rejection
- **🧬 Intelligent Search**: Genetic algorithms for complex optimization
- **⚖️ Offset-Free Control**: Integral action eliminates steady-state errors
- **📈 Real Trajectory Tracking**: Accurate history replaces mock data generation
- **🛡️ Industrial Safety**: Formal constraints and safety guarantees
- **🧪 Comprehensive Testing**: Full test suite with production validation

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

### **Modular Design Philosophy**
```python
from V2.robust_mpc import (
    KalmanStateEstimator,      # Sensor noise filtering
    ProbabilisticTransformer,  # Uncertainty-aware prediction
    GeneticOptimizer,          # Intelligent optimization
    RobustMPCController,       # Integrated control system
    DataBuffer                 # Real trajectory tracking
)

# Composable, production-ready components
controller = RobustMPCController(
    estimator=KalmanStateEstimator(),
    model=ProbabilisticTransformer(),
    optimizer=GeneticOptimizer()
)
```

### **📁 Project Structure**

```
V2/
├── 📋 README.md                        # This documentation
├── 📖 DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md               # Technical architecture specification
├── ⚙️ pyproject.toml                   # V2-specific configuration
├── 📦 requirements.txt                 # Dependency specifications
├── 🔒 uv.lock                          # Dependency lock file
├── 🏭 robust_mpc/                      # Core production library
│   ├── __init__.py                     # Library interface & metadata
│   ├── estimators.py                   # KalmanStateEstimator
│   ├── models.py                       # ProbabilisticTransformer
│   ├── optimizers.py                   # GeneticOptimizer
│   ├── data_buffer.py                  # Real trajectory tracking
│   └── core.py                         # RobustMPCController
├── 📓 notebooks/                       # Progressive learning series
│   ├── V2-1_State_Estimation_for_Stable_Control.ipynb
│   ├── V2-2_Probabilistic_Modeling_for_Uncertainty_Awareness.ipynb
│   ├── V2-3_Advanced_Optimization_with_Genetic_Algorithms.ipynb
│   ├── V2-4_The_Robust_MPC_Core_Integrating_Intelligence.ipynb
│   └── V2-5_V2_vs_V1_Showdown_Stress_Test_Comparison.ipynb
├── 🚀 run_controller.py                # Production deployment script
├── ⚙️ config.yaml                      # Production configuration
├── 💾 data/                            # Generated datasets & artifacts
├── 🎯 models/                          # Trained model checkpoints
├── 🧪 tests/                           # Comprehensive test suite
│   └── test_library_structure.py      # Component validation
├── 🐳 Dockerfile                       # Container deployment
└── 📊 test_v2_*_completion.py          # Integration tests
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.12+ installed
- Access to central PharmaControl environment (recommended)

### **Option 1: Central Environment (Recommended)**
```bash
# From PharmaControl root directory
cd /path/to/PharmaControl
source .venv/bin/activate

# V2 is already accessible
python -c "from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController; print('✅ V2 ready!')"

# Run production controller
python V2/run_controller.py --config V2/config.yaml
```

### **Option 2: Standalone V2 Installation**
```bash
cd V2
source .venv/bin/activate  # V2 has its own environment

# Install V2 with production dependencies
uv pip install -e ".[dev,notebooks]"

# Verify installation
python -c "
from robust_mpc import (
    RobustMPCController,
    KalmanStateEstimator,
    ProbabilisticTransformer,
    GeneticOptimizer
)
print('✅ All V2 components ready!')
"

# Run production controller
python run_controller.py --config config.yaml
```

### **Quick Verification**
```bash
# Test library structure
python tests/test_library_structure.py

# Run comprehensive tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Execute all notebooks
jupyter nbconvert --execute notebooks/*.ipynb
```

## 🎯 Core Components

### **🔍 1. KalmanStateEstimator**
Production-grade state estimation with sensor noise filtering:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.estimators import KalmanStateEstimator

estimator = KalmanStateEstimator(
    state_dim=5,           # Process state dimension
    measurement_dim=8,     # Sensor measurement dimension
    process_noise=0.01,    # Process uncertainty
    measurement_noise=0.05 # Sensor noise level
)

# Noise-free state estimates
filtered_state = estimator.update(noisy_measurements)
```

**Key Features:**
- Extended Kalman filtering for nonlinear systems
- Adaptive noise covariance estimation
- Real-time computational efficiency
- Integration with control loop

### **🤖 2. ProbabilisticTransformer**
Uncertainty-aware prediction with confidence bounds:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.models import ProbabilisticTransformer

model = ProbabilisticTransformer(
    input_dim=8,
    hidden_dim=128,
    num_layers=4,
    dropout_rate=0.1,      # Monte Carlo Dropout
    pred_horizon=20
)

# Predictions with uncertainty quantification
mean_pred, uncertainty = model.predict_with_uncertainty(state_sequence)
```

**Key Features:**
- Monte Carlo Dropout for uncertainty quantification
- Transformer architecture for sequence modeling
- Confidence bounds for risk-aware control
- Scalable to different prediction horizons

### **🧬 3. GeneticOptimizer**
Intelligent optimization for complex action spaces:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc.optimizers import GeneticOptimizer

optimizer = GeneticOptimizer(
    population_size=50,
    num_generations=100,
    mutation_rate=0.1,
    crossover_rate=0.8
)

# Intelligent search through action space
optimal_actions = optimizer.optimize(
    objective_function=control_cost,
    constraints=safety_constraints,
    action_bounds=control_limits
)
```

**Key Features:**
- Evolutionary algorithms for global optimization
- Constraint handling and penalty methods
- Parallel evaluation for computational efficiency
- Adaptive parameter tuning

### **🎮 4. RobustMPCController**
Integrated production control system:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController

controller = RobustMPCController(
    estimator=KalmanStateEstimator(),
    model=ProbabilisticTransformer(),
    optimizer=GeneticOptimizer(),
    horizon=20,
    control_penalty=[1.0, 1.0, 1.0],
    constraint_penalty=100.0
)

# Production-ready control loop
actions = controller.compute_control(
    measurements=sensor_data,
    setpoints=production_targets
)
```

**Key Features:**
- Integrated uncertainty-aware MPC
- Risk-adjusted optimization with confidence bounds
- Constraint satisfaction and safety guarantees
- Production-validated performance

### **📈 5. Real Trajectory Tracking**
Critical architectural improvement for production reliability:

```python
from V2.robust_mpc import DataBuffer, RobustMPCController

# Thread-safe rolling buffer for real history
buffer = DataBuffer(
    cma_features=2,        # d50, LOD
    cpp_features=3,        # spray_rate, air_flow, carousel_speed
    buffer_size=150,       # Rolling history capacity
    validate_sequence=True # Industrial safety
)

# Automatic integration in RobustMPCController
controller = RobustMPCController(
    model=probabilistic_model,
    estimator=kalman_estimator,
    optimizer_class=GeneticOptimizer,
    config=mpc_config,
    scalers=data_scalers
)

# Real trajectory tracking in every control step
action = controller.suggest_action(
    noisy_measurement=measurement,
    control_input=current_control,
    setpoint=target
)
```

**Key Benefits:**
- **Accurate model predictions** based on real process dynamics
- **Eliminates fabricated history** that misled previous implementations
- **Production reliability** for pharmaceutical manufacturing
- **Thread-safe operation** for high-frequency control

**Critical Fix:**
- **Before**: Mock history with hardcoded baselines (spray_rate=130, air_flow=550)
- **After**: Real trajectory tracking showing actual control effectiveness
- **Impact**: Proper pharmaceutical batch quality through accurate predictions

📋 **See [REAL_HISTORY_TRACKING.md](REAL_HISTORY_TRACKING.md) for detailed documentation**

## 📖 Learning Path (5 Notebooks)

### **🎓 Progressive Learning Series**

#### **Notebook V2-1: State Estimation**
- **Focus**: Kalman filtering for sensor noise rejection
- **Skills**: State-space modeling, noise characterization, filtering theory
- **Outputs**: Robust state estimator, noise analysis
- **Time**: 2-3 hours

#### **Notebook V2-2: Probabilistic Modeling**
- **Focus**: Uncertainty quantification with Monte Carlo Dropout
- **Skills**: Bayesian neural networks, uncertainty propagation, risk assessment
- **Outputs**: Probabilistic transformer, confidence bounds
- **Time**: 3-4 hours

#### **Notebook V2-3: Genetic Optimization**
- **Focus**: Evolutionary algorithms for intelligent optimization
- **Skills**: Genetic algorithms, constraint handling, parallel optimization
- **Outputs**: Advanced optimizer, performance benchmarks
- **Time**: 2-3 hours

#### **Notebook V2-4: Integrated Control**
- **Focus**: Complete robust MPC system integration
- **Skills**: System integration, production deployment, performance tuning
- **Outputs**: Production-ready controller, validation results
- **Time**: 3-4 hours

#### **Notebook V2-5: V1 vs V2 Comparison**
- **Focus**: Performance comparison and evolution demonstration
- **Skills**: Benchmarking, comparative analysis, industrial validation
- **Outputs**: Performance metrics, evolution insights
- **Time**: 1-2 hours

### **Total Learning Time**: 1-2 weeks for mastery

## 🔬 Technical Innovations

### **Uncertainty Quantification**
```python
# Risk-aware control with confidence bounds
mean_prediction, std_prediction = model.predict_with_uncertainty(state)

# Upper Confidence Bound approach
risk_adjusted_cost = mean_cost + beta * std_cost

# Conservative control under uncertainty
safe_actions = optimizer.optimize(risk_adjusted_cost, constraints)
```

### **Adaptive State Estimation**
```python
# Self-tuning Kalman filter
estimator = KalmanStateEstimator(adaptive=True)
estimator.update_noise_covariance(innovation_sequence)

# Robust state estimation
filtered_state = estimator.estimate(noisy_measurements)
```

### **Intelligent Optimization**
```python
# Multi-objective genetic optimization
optimizer = GeneticOptimizer(
    objectives=['tracking_error', 'control_effort', 'constraint_violation'],
    weights=[1.0, 0.1, 100.0]
)

# Pareto-optimal solutions
optimal_actions = optimizer.multi_objective_optimize(problem)
```

## 📊 Performance Validation

### **Industrial Benchmarks**
- **Setpoint Tracking**: 95% improvement over V1 in tracking accuracy
- **Disturbance Rejection**: 80% reduction in output variance
- **Constraint Compliance**: 100% satisfaction of safety constraints
- **Computational Efficiency**: <100ms per control cycle (production target)
- **Robustness**: Stable operation under 20% model uncertainty

### **Production Metrics**
- **Model Accuracy**: R² > 0.98 for all outputs with uncertainty bounds
- **Control Performance**: ISE improvement of 75% over baseline
- **Safety Performance**: Zero constraint violations in 10,000+ control cycles
- **Deployment Readiness**: Docker containerization and cloud deployment

## 🔄 Integration & Evolution

### **Backward Compatibility with V1**
```python
# Easy migration from V1
from V1.src.plant_simulator import AdvancedPlantSimulator
from V2.robust_mpc import RobustMPCController

# Use V1 simulator with V2 controller
simulator = AdvancedPlantSimulator()
controller = RobustMPCController()

# Enhanced performance with same interface
actions = controller.compute_control(state, setpoints)
```

### **Forward Evolution to V3**
```python
# V2 components integrate with V3 autonomous system
from V2.robust_mpc import KalmanStateEstimator
from V3.src.autopharm_core.learning import OnlineTrainer

# V2 state estimation with V3 online learning
estimator = KalmanStateEstimator()
trainer = OnlineTrainer(base_estimator=estimator)
```

## 🏭 Production Deployment

### **Docker Deployment**
```bash
# Build production container
docker build -t pharmacontrol-v2 .

# Run production controller
docker run -v $(pwd)/config.yaml:/app/config.yaml pharmacontrol-v2
```

### **Configuration Management**
```yaml
# config.yaml - Production configuration
controller:
  horizon: 20
  control_penalty: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]
  constraint_penalty: 100.0

estimator:
  process_noise: 0.01
  measurement_noise: 0.05

model:
  dropout_rate: 0.1
  uncertainty_samples: 100

optimizer:
  population_size: 50
  num_generations: 100
```

### **Monitoring & Logging**
```python
# Production monitoring
controller.enable_logging(level='INFO', file='production.log')
controller.enable_metrics(prometheus_endpoint='/metrics')

# Real-time dashboards
controller.start_dashboard(port=8080)
```

## 🧪 Testing & Validation

### **Comprehensive Test Suite**
```bash
# Unit tests for all components
pytest tests/test_estimators.py -v
pytest tests/test_models.py -v
pytest tests/test_optimizers.py -v
pytest tests/test_core.py -v

# Integration tests
python test_v2_3_completion.py  # Genetic optimization integration
python test_v2_4_completion.py  # Full system integration

# Performance benchmarks
pytest tests/ --benchmark-only
```

### **Validation Scenarios**
- **Nominal Operation**: Standard production conditions
- **Disturbance Tests**: Robustness under process upsets
- **Sensor Failure**: Graceful degradation with sensor faults
- **Model Uncertainty**: Performance under plant-model mismatch
- **Constraint Activation**: Safety behavior at operating limits

## 🤝 Contributing to V2

### **Development Areas**
- **🔧 Algorithm Enhancement**: New optimization methods, improved uncertainty quantification
- **🧪 Test Expansion**: Additional validation scenarios, stress tests
- **📊 Monitoring**: Enhanced dashboards, metrics, and logging
- **🐳 Deployment**: Kubernetes, cloud deployment, CI/CD pipelines
- **📖 Documentation**: API documentation, tutorials, best practices

### **Development Workflow**
```bash
# Setup development environment
cd V2
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install -e ".[dev,testing,docs]"

# Code quality checks
black robust_mpc/
ruff robust_mpc/
mypy robust_mpc/

# Run full test suite
pytest tests/ --cov=robust_mpc --cov-report=html

# Build documentation
cd docs && ./build_docs.sh
```

### **Documentation**
The V2 library includes comprehensive API documentation generated with Sphinx. After building the documentation, you can view it by opening `V2/docs/_build/html/index.html` in your browser.

To quickly generate and build the documentation, you can use the provided script:
```bash
cd V2/docs
./build_docs.sh
```

## 🔗 Quick Navigation

| Resource | Link | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| **Previous Level** | [← V1 Prototype](../V1/README.md) | Educational foundation |
| **Next Level** | [V3 Autonomous →](../V3/README.md) | Autonomous intelligence |
| **Full Project** | [← Main README](../README.md) | Complete overview |
| **Architecture** | [DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md](DESIGN_DOCUMENT.md) | Technical specifications |
| **Production** | [run_controller.py](run_controller.py) | Deployment script |
| **Testing** | [tests/](tests/) | Test suite |

---

**🎯 V2 Mission**: Deliver production-ready, uncertainty-aware model predictive control for industrial pharmaceutical manufacturing.

**📈 Evolution Path**: [V1 Foundation](../V1/) → **V2 Industrial Excellence** → [V3 Autonomous Intelligence](../V3/)

**🏭 Production Ready**: Deploy V2 today for immediate industrial impact!
